GCP announcement (#469)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2021-07/google-cloud-platform/index.md

---
title: Announcing Octopus support for Google Cloud
description: TODO description
author: andreia.virmond@octopus.com
visibility: public
published: 2022-07-21-1400
metaImage: TODO
bannerImage: TODO
tags:
 - DevOps
---

In line with our [public roadmap](https://octopus.com/company/roadmap), we’re continuously rolling out cloud improvements, and we’re excited to introduce first-class support for Google Cloud Platform (GCP). 

> This fresh addition means that Octopus now offers native support to the three major cloud providers (AWS, Azure, and now GCP), meeting the evolving needs of our customers, particularly those who have GCP K8s clusters and are running tentacles on GCP VMs. 

Reviewer: Done. Thanks as now I know K8s actually means kubernetes ;)

This native integration of Octopus with GCP will allow you to:

> * Connect and authenticate with GCP via a dedicated account type.

Reviewer: I have added your updated line above. Do you think we need to expand further on the other items too?

* Use gcloud, the GCP command-line tool.
* Create and tear down GCP infrastructure with Terraform.
* Store and secure your Docker images within the Google Container Registry (GCR).
* Deploy, scale and manage containerized applications on GCP with Octopus and Kubernetes.

## **Walk through**

> Currently, Octopus provides support for Google Cloud deployments with the Run gcloud in a Script step.

Author: I'd tweak this intro to describe what we're showing and how we're helping them get started. 

> To see this new integration in action, we'll walk through how to add a new Google Cloud account in Octopus and run a `gcloud` script to "do something". 

NOTE: I don't know what something should be. We should ask the gcp team for help. Most likely, it would be running a script against a Kubernetes Cluster.

The Run gcloud in a Script step can be used to execute scripts on targets within Google Cloud platforms.

**Google Cloud accounts**

> To deploy infrastructure to GCP, you can define a Google Cloud account in Octopus.

Author: ```suggestion
To integrate with GCP, we need to first define a Google Cloud account in Octopus. This is done in the {{Infrastructure, Accounts} area along side any AWS or Azure accounts you already have. 
```

> Octopus manages the GCP credentials used by the Google Cloud steps.

Author: ```suggestion
Octopus manages the GCP credentials used by the Google Cloud steps. This means you don't need to worry about authentication within a deployment process or runbook and run pre-authenticated gcloud scripts.
```

The Google Cloud account is the JSON key file credentials that can be retrieved from the service account assigned to the instance that is executing the deployment.

Learn more about [creating a Google Cloud account](https://octopus.com/docs/infrastructure/accounts/google-cloud) and see the [Google cloud documentation](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys) for instructions to create a service account and download the key file.

**Google Cloud account variable**

Once you have created a Google Cloud account, Google Cloud accounts can be accessed in a project through a project [variable](https://octopus.com/docs/projects/variables) of the type Google Cloud account. 

Learn more about setting up [Google Cloud account variables](https://octopus.com/docs/projects/variables/google-cloud-account-variables).

> ![Octopus Google Cloud account](google-cloud-account-variable.png "width=500")

Author: Usually we have the screenshots above the text.

> Once you have created a Google Cloud account, Google Cloud accounts can be accessed in a project through a project [variable](https://octopus.com/docs/projects/variables) of the type Google Cloud account. 

Reviewer 2: Hi guys :) should we rephrase this sentence a bit? Either:

Once you have created Google Cloud accounts, they can be accessed in a project through...
Once being created, Google Cloud accounts can be accessed in a project through...

**Running gcloud scripts**

> Octopus Deploy can help you run scripts on targets within Google cloud platforms.

Author: I think this is the area where we need to add a real-world scenario to help developers understand why this is valuable. Like I said above, I think the best example is probably running a gcloud script to do something with a Kubernetes cluster. This might be a step in a deployment process or a runbook. We want something realistic for our audience.

These scripts typically rely on tools being available on the target worker.

We recommend that you provision your own tools on your worker - this way you can control what version of the tools are provisioned, and ensure their compatibility with the scripts you are trying to execute.

When executing a script against GCP, Octopus Deploy will automatically use your provided Google Cloud account details to authenticate you to the target instance, or you can choose to use the service account associated with the target instance.

This functionality requires the gcloud CLI to be installed on the worker.

To execute a script in the context of a Google cloud platform instance, Octopus provide a *Run gcloud in a Script* step. For information about adding a step to the deployment process, see the [add step](https://octopus.com/docs/projects/steps) section.

> ![Google Cloud script step](google-cloud-script-step.png "width=500")

Author: I would remove this screenshot. I don't think it's needed.

![Google Cloud script step](google-cloud-script-step-body.png "width=500")

## **Conclusion**

> We hope you’re as excited as we’re with this newly added ability to deploy infrastructure to GCP. 

Author: I would tweak this slightly for tone. i.e. This is definitely a good thing but I don't know how excited they'd be. 😜 

> We're excited to ship this new GCP support and we hope it helps you deploy and manage your GCP infrastructure and applications hosted there.
